There may be no industry as culturally significant as sports. Professional athletes are today’s celebrities, influencing global culture more than all of the glitz in Hollywood. Sports are intertwined with our identities and serves as a way to stand out or be part of a community. Meet someone at a party, and, after answering the obligatory questions like “What do you do?” and “Where are you from?”, the sports team you root for will inevitably come up.
Kids worldwide grow up idolizing star athletes from their favorite teams and dream of becoming a professional athlete themselves one day. This dream doesn’t die when they grow up and enter the workforce, but often evolves into ideas of one day owning a professional sports team. Imagine, you’re sitting comfortably in the owner’s box watching your team play every week and passionately cheering along with the fans — the same way you’ve done before but now in a significantly upgraded seat and more at stake. Unless you happen to be a billionaire, this will remain a fantasy. Your rooting interest lives purely from the eye of a fan and is completely separate from potential financial gains earned when your team or favorite player performs well.
Disrupting the idea of unattainability, however, are innovations and revolutionary platforms. Industries, services, and the way we connect globally have changed dramatically. This has opened the door for the dominance of two-sided online marketplaces. Halfway into 2019, three major online marketplaces — Airbnb, Lyft, and Uber — have held their IPOs with valuations in the tens of billions of dollars. These successful marketplaces have paved the way for the emergence of what are called
Enter SportBLX, an investment platform that allows fans and investors anywhere in the world to own shares of unique assets in sports. Fans and investors can access the SportBLX platform, open an account and begin buying shares linked to equity interest in their favorite teams and revenue interests in their favorite players. Owning shares allows fans and investors to participate in the value creation that comes with success in sports. Now, experts and enthusiasts can finally put their sports knowledge to use while engaging with and investing in the athletes and sports teams they love.
More than turning onlookers into raving fans, SportBLX also can enable professional athletes to monetize their forward earnings while enhancing their global business access and brand value. Existing owners of unique assets like sports franchises (European football for now), Formula 1 racing teams, and thoroughbred racehorses can also create and sell digital shares of their equity interests and access liquidity at premium pricing from its fans and transform fan engagement.
